How can i run java programs on linux?(I got SUSE linux.i have been doing them on windows)

You use the same commands on Linux (and Mac OS X and other Unix) as you do on MS-Windows.
Be aware they must be all in lowercase since Linux (like Unix) is completely case sensitive
when it comes to file and directory names.

What changes going from MS-Windows to these Unix/Linux-based operating systems is:

   1. CLASSPATH uses colon (:) instead of semicolon (;) as the jar/directory name separator
   2. CLASSPATHmust be capitalized (not sure if lower/mixed case is okay on MS-Windows it
      must definitely be uppercase)
   3. same rules for CLASSPATH value apply for -classpath command-line argument values
   4. directory/filenames are case-sensitive – so do not write MyFile.txt as MYFILE.TXT!
   5. directory/filename delimiter in file paths is forward slash (/) instead of backslash (\)

These are basically operating system wide conventions. Java is just following the norms for
the OS it is running on in these cases.

By the way, in your own programs, make sure you use the features in the java.io.File class
so your program is compatible with the OS it runs on.

Also, when launching Java programs from .class files and creating .java files – remember that
Java is always case sensitive for class names (and their respective file names) – regardless
of the OS being used.

One more thing. If you are running a Java application and there is no windowing system (e.g.
no X Windows) then you must launch with -Djava.awt.headless=true . This often happens when
running a web server like Tomcat or an EJB server like JBoss. Read Sun’s explanation for more
info on headless mode.

You might find the Linux strace command very helpful for troubleshooting system problems with
your application. It lets you monitor kernel calls.
It is the Linux equivalent of the truss command on Solaris/SunOS and the ktrace command on Mac
OS X. It can be a life-saver when things go totally sideways and you just want to see what is
going on inside the JVM’s head.

Java Programming on Linux was very helpful but it is out of print now. You might find it at a
library or a used bookstore. However, the tips I have given will probably be sufficient to
keep you from getting tripped up by the switch to Linux.